---
layout: post
title:  "About BLE"
date:   2018-12-16 13:21:53 -0600
categories: jekyll update
---

# Classic Bluetooth && BLE (Bluetooth Low Energy)
   **Bluetooth**is long range networking protocol (like WI-FI) which is designed to quickly and automatically connect devices. 

## Basic
1. What is **Classic Bluetooth**?
   - It is designed for continuous two-way data transfer. 
   - It is highly effective, but only for short distances.
   - It is a perfect solution in the case of streaming audio and video, or mice and other devices that need a continuous, broadband link.
   
2. What is **BLE 4.0**? 
   - Bluetooth Low Energy is developed by the [Bluetooth Special Interest Group (SIG)](https://www.bluetooth.com/) for **short-range communication**. 
   - BLE is not intended to use for stream data 
   - **Low power consumption** is the most important difference (Most important difference)

3. **Commons** between Classic Bluetooth and BLE 
    - Both Classic Bluetooth and BLE operate in the same 2.4 GHz ISM band.
    - Both Classic Bluetooth and BLE operate with the same pairing technology, **authentication** and even **encryption**
    - Both Classic Bluetooth and BLE operate in **Classic master-slave model**. Which means first the bluetooth devices need to be paired and then the data transmission can happen.     

4. **Difference** between Classic Bluetooth and BLE 
    - BLE 4.0 offers low power consumption of magnitude of 1-50% of that of Classic Bluetooth.
    - **Classic Bluetooth** can handle a lot of data, but consumes battery life quickly and costs a lot more. 
    - **BLE** is used for applications that do not need to exchange large amounts of data, and can therefore run on battery power for years at a cheaper cost.
    
5. What is **Service**? 
    - Collections of characteristics and relationships to other services that encapsulate the behavior of part of a device.
    
6. What is **Characteristic**? 
    - Characteristic(attribute types) can be considered as a variable. Which contains a single locial value. 

~~~~
GATT(Generic Attribute Profile) is two BLE devices transfer data back and forth using concepts 
called Service and Characteristics. 
~~~~
   




